# Title:"Effect of COVID-19 and the wars in Ukraine and Israel on the European wholesale electricity markets"

The purpose of this thesis is to study the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the two ongoing wars in Ukraine and Israel on the European electricity market. Understanding how health and geopolitical disruptions affect the prices of this particular market is considered crucial for the strategy of market participants.
Initially, the thesis introduces the tools used and the data management methods in Python. The time series analyzed include: (a) the clearing prices of the Day-Ahead Market (DAM), and (b) the month-ahead futures contracts (month+1 futures) for energy products Brent, Dutch TTF, and EUAs. It is noteworthy that the time series prices cover the period from January 1, 2019, to January 1, 2024. The thesis details how the data were analyzed using charts and tables through the Python programming language.
Additionally, an artificial neural network model is employed to examine the capability of predicting DAM clearing prices, given that the price of one of the aforementioned futures is known. Subsequently, a historical review is conducted on the three events: (a) COVID-19, (b) the war in Ukraine, and (c) the war in Israel, extensively analyzing the development of these events. Special reference is made to the European Electricity Market, describing its functioning and the fundamental parameters that affect the clearing prices of the Day-Ahead Markets in Europe.
Finally, all results are analyzed with the aid of tables, and the fluctuations in energy prices are documented based on the events occurring during the five-year period from 2019 to 2024. The thesis concludes with some useful insights, seeking ways to avoid similar energy crises in the future.
